If you'd open your Bibles to Romans chapter 12 and verse 1, we'll note that the Apostle Paul,
as has been commented on, talks about reasoning on matters. That's Romans 12 and verse 1. He says,
therefore, I appeal to you by the compassion of God-brothers to present your bodies as a living
sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, a sacred service with your power of reason. So Paul says,
reasoning has power to it. A synonym for power is influence. And so if you reason something out,
you'll be influenced to make the proper decision, basically. Now, he also introduced something
else in our text today. Let's go there at 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 and we'll read verses 1 and 2.
However, brother is concerning the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ and are being gathered
together to him. We ask you not to be quickly shaken from your reason, nor to be alarmed,
either by an inspired statement or by a spoken message or by a letter appearing to be from us
to the effect that the day of Jehovah is here. So he introduces this aspect of
being quickly shaken once you come to a conclusion on a matter after reasoning it out.
He says, don't be quickly shaken once you come to a conclusion of the matter as a result of
reasoning the matter out. And that's when he was telling the Thessalonico congregation here.
In the first letter, he had talked about and warned them that Jehovah's Day was imminent,
that it was coming. And as a result, some of the congregation went beyond that saying that it was
here. In fact, as the verse 2 says, there apparently was even a letter that appeared to be from Paul
and saying that it is not that it is coming, Jehovah's Day is here.
And so some got sidetracked as a result of not thinking it through and their faith was shaken
apparently. And then as you continue, Paul, then help them to reason further that no, there are other
things have to happen before, before Jehovah's Day. So what I'd like to talk about this matter
of quickly being shaken, that is our faith. It's important because we spend years developing a
relationship with Jehovah God and developing a solid faith. And just this idea that Paul introduces
that one's faith can be quickly shaken is rather a disconcerting thought. It can happen to
any of us really. I just think about Judas Iscariot. John 6 verse 64 says from the beginning,
Jesus knew who was the one that would betray him from the beginning, for the beginning of what?
The insight book says from the beginning of when Judas started to go bad,
started to give into imperfections and sinful inclinations. Well, how long did that process take?
Well, it was lasted a year from the time he was appointed as an apostle. We know his appointment
was no mistake. So within that sharp period of time, this man went from an apostle to an apostate.
That's why it's such good counsel that Paul gave for us not to be quickly shaken from matters
that we have established as a result of good reasoning. Now, there are times that we're more
susceptible to our faith being quickly shaken than others. And I'd like to talk about that
just a moment. What could some of those times be? Well, it could be when we're going through
stress, depression, or anxiety. The March 1st, 2010 Watchtower makes this comment, judgment may
be clouded when one is under great emotional stress. Now, let me give you an example. Hypothetical,
but here's an example. A brother has a deep relationship with his parents. His mother suddenly
dies. This is a great emotional blow to him. He slips into a mild depression. And as a result,
his personal study and his spiritual activities slow down. Then a short time later,
a sibling is disfellowship. This crushes him. He can't sleep. He wakes up. He gets to the computer.
He turns it on. And he slips into watching something inappropriate. Now, what's just happened
while his good reasoning ability was shaken. It's of note to the November 15, 1992 Watchtower
puts it this way, severe and prolonged mental depression may have worn away some of the person's
normally strong emotional fiber or may have made it extremely difficult to make wise decisions.
So what could the brother have done? Well, when he first recognized this mild depression
are slipping from the spiritual activities, it would have been good for him to get someone to
help him identify the cause. Now, what is another circumstance that could might quickly shaken
our faith if we're not on guard? Well, it has to do with the apostates. Now, there is something that
the apostates are talking about and trying to put forward. The media has picked it up. Others
have also picked it up. And that is our scriptural position of having two witnesses a requirement for
judicial action if there's no confession. Now, if you open your Bibles to Deuteronomy 1915, our good
reasoning is pretty solid on this. And Deuteronomy 1915, the scripture is very, very clear.
It says no single witness may convict another for any error or any sin that he may commit.
On the testimony of two witnesses or on the testimony of three witnesses, the matter should be
established. It's very clear, isn't it? You cannot establish a judicial committee based on
one witness. But now listen, here's what they say. Well, now look, the Old Testament also says
that adulteresses should be stoned. Now, since you're not doing that, why do you stick to this
two witness rule? See, if you're not careful, that can do some tricks on your mind because
you have to think it through. Well, how might we do that? Well, we'll go to Matthew chapter 18 and
verse 16 because obviously Christ Jesus established the Christian arrangement. And notice what he said,
Matthew 18 and verse 16, he says, but if he does not listen, take along with you one or two more so
that on the testimony of two or three witnesses every matter may be established. So Christ Jesus
establishes the fact that there has to be two witnesses. Now, it doesn't mean that if there's
only one witness that there is no consequences, there might be, depending upon the situation. But
the scriptures are very clear before judicial committee can be convened. There has to be a confession
or two witnesses. So we will never change our scriptural position on that subject.
Jehovah has given us the ability to reason things out, to think it through. So let's do our part
and not allow our faith to be quickly shaken. Then we can have the confidence that Paul spoke of in
second Thessalonians 2 verse 5 when he said, may the Lord continue to guide your hearts successfully
to the love of God and to the endurance for the Christ.